Migration, asylum and integration
Migration, asylum and integration: acting humanely and rationally to protect Germany
The refugee movements of the 21st century cannot be managed by accepting migrants in Europe and Germany.
There have never been more refugees globally than in recent years.
In addition to military conflicts and acts of state persecution, the enormous population growth on the African continent plays an outstanding role.
As this is linked to poverty and the struggle for daily survival, the migratory pressure on Europe is growing in a particular way.
Contrary to the intention of the UN Compact on Migration, migration cannot solve this global problem.
Even small parts of this development, which can be expressed in millions of people, cannot be absorbed economically, socially and integrationally in Europe.
Germany and the other European countries would be destabilised without making an effective contribution to solving the global problem.
Ending asylum abuse
The current asylum system is dysfunctional and resembles a lottery.
Financial disincentives and failure to deport lead to illegal migration, smuggling and numerous deaths in the Mediterranean.
Most of these migrants set off for Europe in the hope of a better life.
However, aid for people in need must be decoupled from reception in Germany and delivered in the crisis regions themselves, where this is far more effective and reaches many more people in genuine need of help.
The Unsolvable Consequences
The disastrous consequences of unregulated mass immigration since 2015 are incalculable and are worsening: disproportionate migrant crime, terrorist attacks and Islamic separatism prove this, as do three-digit billion-dollar costs, housing shortages and high unemployment among immigrants.
Successful integration cannot and will not succeed in this way.
Our solution: A 21st century protection system based on the Japanese model An existential question such as immigration must be decided in democratic self-determination at the national level.
In addition to the replacement of outdated international regulations, such as the 1951 Geneva Refugee Convention, our model for the 21st century has the following key points: Focus on humanitarian aid in crisis regions themselves (intra-continental alternatives to refugees) Rejection of asylum seekers upon entry at the border in accordance with Art. 16a sec. 2 sentence 1 GG Exclusively qualified immigration based on the Japanese model Humanitarian admission only for persons selected by the Bundestag who are particularly in need of protection, for whose selection a cultural and religious background compatible with German values and social order is an important criterion.
As long as there is no permanent and effective protection of the EU's external borders and the inadequate supranational legal situation persists, Germany must take control of its borders and prevent illegal border crossings into its own hands.
We therefore demand that only those who are permitted to enter the country should be allowed to do so.
Rejections at the border must once again be taken for granted as the right of sovereign states.
Borders must be provided with modern and effective security in order to combat illegal immigration and crime.
Cross-border movement of commuters, holidays and goods must be guaranteed without undue restrictions.
A comprehensive and modern approach to border security is being developed in order to monitor the Green Border with the same effectiveness.
This may include physical barriers such as border fences to secure national borders.
Asylum paradise Germany close
Since 2015, Germany has borne the brunt of illegal immigration to Europe, caused by a multitude of self-inflicted causes.
The AfD has drawn up a comprehensive catalogue of measures to restore orderly conditions in the asylum procedure, migration, asylum and integration and will consequently demand its implementation: 1. No blanket immigration quotas and redistribution quotas, whether in the national, European or non-European framework (e.g. resettlement).
2) No reception of migrants arriving in Europe through abuses of sea rescue as part of a European solution.
On the contrary, in accordance with international maritime law, disembarkation of the persons concerned must in principle take place at the nearest suitable seaport.
The form of sea rescue practiced today often acts as a fatal pull factor.
3. Application for asylum and opening of the application procedure only with proven identity and nationality.
4. Strict punishment of misstatements in the asylum procedure.
5. Increase the number of safe countries of origin.
6. Combating the misuse of legally issued visas for the purpose of applying for asylum; 7. Loss of protection status after asylum seekers travel to their country of origin.
Anyone who has visited their country of origin is being turned back at the German border as they try to re-enter.
8. Rejection of all family reunification for refugees.
9. Abolition of the "lane change" for rejected and expelled asylum seekers.
No reward for illegal entry and refusal to leave.
10. Settlement permit for recognised asylum seekers only after 10 years.
11 to end the rampant use of asylum-seeker counseling and care.
Advice and support is usually provided by non-governmental, independent agencies, which have a financial interest in increasing refugee numbers and keeping as many rejected people as possible.
These organisations are part of the asylum industry that enriches the asylum system.
Procedural and return counselling almost always turns into refusal and stay counselling.
Procedural advice may only be provided in accordance with § 12a of the Asylum Act and only by state authorities.
12. No more work permits for asylum seekers and rejected asylum seekers.
13. Annual review of the continuity of grounds for asylum for more than ten years, since asylum is a right of time and does not give rise to entitlement to permanent immigration.
14. Exclusive deportation of endangered persons and offenders, including to Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria.
15. Returnees should be able to receive basic training in crafts and practical skills that will enable them to rebuild their homeland and start a business there (<unk> fit for return <unk>).
Deportation and return
Failure to end the stay of rejected asylum seekers who are required to leave the country is the opposite of the rule of law: it is an expression of continued state failure.
The number of people required to leave the country has steadily increased, reaching around 300,000 in the second quarter of 2021, while the number of voluntary departures and successful deportations continues to decline.
Politicians have capitulated to the task of resolving this contradiction, driven by a powerful anti-deportation industry.
It is cynical and inhumane to lure people with the de facto guarantee of permanent residency in rich Germany, while accepting their possible deaths in the Mediterranean.
Voluntary return is always preferable to deportation for financial, organisational and humanitarian reasons, which is why readiness to return must be encouraged much more than before.
The AfD therefore calls for the restoration of the rule of law: 1. A deportation offensive to reduce the overhang of those who have to leave the country.
2) A national and supranational immigration agenda to provide protection in regions of origin and transit, based on the principle of "on-the-spot assistance" 3) No more tolerations, but certificates of compulsory departure.
4. Transfer of responsibility for the execution of deportations to the Federal Police and their corresponding equipment with personnel and competences.
5. Declare prevention of deportation a criminal offence.
6. Use of free space on Bundeswehr transport flights to increase the number of deportations.
7. Cancellation of the church asylum agreement between BAMF and churches.
It is not acceptable that the churches, abusing the church asylum system, cancel the deadlines for deportations to EU countries.
Saving lives and establishing social justice
In international comparison, Germany's performance for asylum seekers is very high.
Recognized expects a lifetime of material security.
The funds for this are raised by taxpayers who have to work hard for it but have not invited economic refugees.
The generosity of the German state causes a considerable pull effect, which leads to the death of many people.
The Federal Government is thus burdening itself with heavy moral guilt.
The recognition of asylum leads to immediate equality in all social security systems, without any prior participation in the solidarity system.
This is socially unfair.
The AfD therefore calls for the reduction of incentives and for the preservation of social justice: Social benefits for asylum seekers and persons obliged to leave the country must be provided without exception as benefits in kind.
Recognition of asylum must no longer mean the automatic, immediate, unlimited entitlement to all the benefits of the welfare state.
According to the Austrian model, the granting of benefits in full could also be made dependent on the achievement of good language skills.
One of the main motives for the current mass migration to Germany and Europe is the possibility of migrants to transfer transfers received in Germany and also money earned legally or illegally back to their home countries.
In order to eliminate this migration incentive, we support the introduction of a tax on remittances leaving the European Economic Area (EEA).
Help on the ground instead of death on the way to Europe
Aid on the ground is the AfD's top priority.
It must be given absolute priority over the reception of asylum seekers in Germany.
At the same time, it reduces important reasons for escape.
Some of the tens of billions of euros used in the context of asylum policy can have multiple effects close to home and thus help to reduce migratory pressure in the long term.
Regulate immigration nationally again
Germany's sovereignty over immigration policy is already gone.
The main reason for this is a far-reaching surrender of sovereignty to the EU and membership of international agreements, all of which pursue a far-Left, one-world utopia.
The AfD opposes this.
It advocates the return of sovereign rights to legislate on asylum and immigration and proposes the following measures: the communitisation of the right of residence and asylum will be reversed.
European border security remains a European responsibility (Frontex) in parallel with national responsibility for its own border security.
Germany immediately repeals the UN Compact on Migration and the UN Refugee Pact, as they will be incorporated into national law despite their supposed non-binding nature.
The new EU migration pact sought by the European Commission is to be prevented or Germany's accession omitted.
No Common European Asylum System (CEAS) with EU-set reception quotas for refugees.
Skilled immigration
The current immigration system is culturally and economically damaging to Germany and in urgent need of reform.
The AfD is committed to preserving Germany's cultural identity.
For Germany, an identity-preserving migration policy cannot be modelled on classical immigration countries the size of Canada or Australia, but rather on countries such as Japan, which pursue a restriction and management of migration in accordance with their national structure.
Due to the lockdown crisis, automation and digitalization, the times of record high employment are foreseeably over.
Mass migration creates wage pressure into the middle class and leads to competition for benefits.
We call for the elaboration of a comprehensive approach to migration policy along the lines of the Japanese model, with the primary objective of safeguarding the interests of Germans and citizens who have already immigrated and are committed to Germany's cultural identity.
The assertion by some business associations and lobbyists that there is a shortage of skilled labour in Germany and thus a need for qualified immigration only serves the common good in the first place and must therefore not be authoritative.
The harmful influence of vested economic interests, or even anti-German resentment disguised by them, must be stopped.
Integration
When it comes to integration, we see an obligation on immigrants and those to whom we grant temporary protection.
Integration will only succeed if the rules, traditions and values of our society are accepted.
The acquisition of German is indispensable.
The AfD demands: With qualified immigrants we presuppose an intensive readiness to integrate.
The focus must be on language learning, which we want to support up to level B2.
Preference for migrants in the form of quotas, in defiance of the principle of merit, must be excluded.
We reject any reduction in the requirements for training or recruitment to the civil service.
Integration projects must be subject to a state evaluation and success assessment.
The profiteering of NGOs and charities must be stopped.
The AfD demands that the headscarf as a religious-political symbol is generally not permitted in the public service and that it is not worn by teachers or pupils in public schools.
We consider this to be one of the most important conditions for successful integration.
The ban on headscarves contributes to the preservation of peace at school and enables young girls to develop their own personality and self-determination.
German citizenship is a precious commodity
We want to delete the place of birth principle (acquisition of German citizenship by birth in Germany, even if no parent is German) from the law and return to the principle of descent, as was the case until the year 2000.
The requirements - especially in terms of time - for a discretionary reduction must increase considerably and there must no longer be any entitlement to a reduction.
The award of German citizenship is to be experienced as a success of one's own efforts and to be able to fulfil those affected with pride.
