Helping people in need, organising and managing migration effectively
The European Union and Germany are helping people who are in great need because of political persecution or because of the Geneva Convention on Refugees.
We are committed to the fundamental right to asylum and to the legal and humanitarian obligations of Germany and Europe.
Targeted immigration is an asset and an opportunity for our country if it is accompanied by successful integration - into our labour market as well as into our society.
That is what we expect from immigrants and that is what we want to support them in.
The BioNTech founders impressively show what successful immigration stories look like.
They are just one of many examples of how we can benefit from the brightest minds from around the world.
This also applies to managed and targeted immigration into the labour market.
Migration, however, is only an opportunity if it takes place in an orderly manner and is guided by clear rules.
This applies to the immigration of skilled workers as well as to the reception of asylum seekers and refugees.
We are opposed to immigration into the social systems.
Our policy is therefore based on effective order and management of migration.
This means that we do not want to enforce illegal migration and exit obligations.
This is the prerequisite for us to be able to help people in need on a permanent basis.
We combine cosmopolitanism and consistency, humanity and order.
We have made asylum procedures and returns fairer, more structured and more efficient.
We are continuing our efforts to ensure that the number of people fleeing to Germany and Europe not only remains permanently low, but also continues to decline.
A clear distinction must be made between people in need and those who have to leave our country because they are not in need of protection.
We want to define other safe countries of origin.
With the classification as a safe country of origin, citizens from such a state who apply for asylum in Germany can be returned to their home country more easily and more quickly.
Incentives would be dismantled to prevent these people from making their way to Germany without the prospect of asylum.
Nevertheless, the classification of further states with infinitesimally low recognition rates for asylum applications in the Bundesrat failed due to resistance from some Länder, although the Bundestag had already decided on an extension.
That is why we want to use the possibilities of European asylum law to create a new concept of safe countries of origin, the "small safe country of origin."
In an ordinary legislative procedure for the classification of a state, the state is classified as a safe country of origin both in the sense of the Basic Law and in the sense of the European Asylum Procedures Directive.
However, a classification as a "safe country of origin" under the Asylum Procedures Directive would be possible without the consent of the Federal Council and therefore without the participation of the Länder.
This does not affect the examination for asylum under Art. 16 a., guaranteed by the Basic Law.
We are opposed to extending family reunification beyond the current arrangements.
We want to further restrict the right to stay of those who are obliged to leave in order to further reduce the incentives for illegal immigration; in particular, residence permits for those who are tolerated should be linked to genuine integration requirements.
We want to improve the enforcement of exit obligations by, among other things, creating detention facilities at airports in order to facilitate collective deportations.
Violations of a re-entry ban are immediately followed by deportation detention.
We want to deport criminals consistently.
Anyone who commits a criminal offence in Germany has forfeited his right to host.
We will once again significantly increase the pressure on identity deceivers and refuseniks.
To this end, we will strengthen the legal possibilities and make use of available technical means.
In future, misstatements in asylum proceedings must also be punishable if they are made to the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees.
In addition, data carriers, and in particular mobile phones, must also be allowed to be read to clarify security concerns.
Anyone who deceives the state about his identity and prevents his deportation cannot be entitled to toleration.
We will also make the rules on exit detention and deportation detention more practical.
Fundamental reform of European asylum and refugee policy
Supplying asylum seekers is neither a sole challenge for Germany nor for the states at the EU's external borders.
It is a common European challenge.
The primary objective must be to open up life prospects for people in or near their homeland.
The European Union must further intensify cooperation with the main countries of origin and combat causes of flight, such as poverty.
This requires, in particular, a comprehensive partnership with our neighbouring continent of Africa and an active stabilisation policy in the Middle East.
The Common European Asylum System must be fundamentally reformed.
The European Commission's proposal for a fair and solidarity-based distribution of costs and burdens within the Member States of the European Union is a step in the right direction.
We are in favour of setting up European decision-making centres at the EU's external borders to check whether or not an asylum claim has been made.
From this perspective, a European authority can develop, which will also support the Member States and take on coordination tasks.
We need common standards in European asylum law and a Europe-wide harmonisation of reception conditions - in terms of procedures, accommodation and care.
This reduces the incentives that make some Member States more attractive to asylum seekers than others.
