Immigration and flight
Germany is a country of immigration.
Like all traditional immigration countries, therefore, clear rules for immigration according to one's own interests are needed, bundled in an immigration code.
At the same time, we must fulfil our humanitarian obligations towards those in need of protection.
We want to combine humanity and order.
We Free Democrats want to create a single immigration law in the form of a coherent immigration code.
Introduce points system to control immigration into the labour market
We Free Democrats want to control immigration into the labour market in an understandable and simple way.
To this end, we call for a modern two-pillar system.
This consists of a revised "blue card" as a core tool of skilled immigration with job opportunities, which must also be opened to non-academic professionals, and the introduction of a Canadian-style points system to allow skilled workers to come to Germany to look for work even without a job offer.
The management should be based on criteria such as level of education, knowledge of German or even good English, age, work experience and the current demand for skilled labour on the labour market.
In the medium term, the Opportunity Card should be integrated into a European talent pool in order to increase and standardise Europe's attractiveness for qualified professionals and students.
For both pillars, there must be a single nationwide recognition body responsible for all professions, which carries out the examination in a structured and professional manner.
For well-integrated asylum seekers, there must be the possibility of moving into one of the two pillars of immigration into the labour market.
Anyone engaged in gainful employment or in a qualification phase (e.g. training or study) should not be expelled.
Clear distinction between flight and immigration
For us Free Democrats, the fundamental right to asylum for politically persecuted persons is inviolable.
This includes political persecution on religious grounds or on grounds of sexual identity.
We want to distinguish between politically persecuted people, war refugees and permanent immigrants.
We want to create our own non-bureaucratic status for refugees from war and civil war - temporary humanitarian protection limited to the duration of the war.
Once identity has been established, this status is to be granted in a straightforward manner, thereby massively relieving the asylum system.
As a rule, war refugees should return to their homeland after the end of the war.
The competences of the Federation and the Länder should be clearly separated.
The federal government should be responsible for all questions of protection status and termination of residence, including deportation, so that the Länder can concentrate on the task of integration.
An orderly immigration law also includes a consistent enforcement of the obligation to leave the country by means of deportation and the creation of sufficient detention centres.
At the same time, particularly vulnerable groups, such as those persecuted on religious grounds or on grounds of sexual identity, need safe procedures and accommodation, and in the case of so-called safe countries of origin, special legal advice in order to be able to submit applications in a timely and formal manner.
Mandatory distribution of asylum seekers
As the core of a further development of the common European asylum policy, we Free Democrats are calling for a binding distribution of asylum seekers among the EU states, unless they clearly have no prospect of staying.
If an agreement at EU level does not succeed in the foreseeable future, Germany should lead the way with like-minded states.
States that do not participate in this coalition of the willing must expect appropriate cuts in grants from the EU budget, which will then be used to finance the cost of taking in refugees.
Preventing secondary migration
We Free Democrats want a firm, eight-year competence of the EU Member State to which a person seeking protection has been assigned.
Return to the competent EU country must be simplified.
As a rule, protection seekers should only receive assistance in the competent EU state.
It is important to ensure that this assistance is at a minimum European level in all Member States.
In doing so, we want to develop the Dublin rules further and effectively prevent secondary migration.
Enabling asylum applications in embassies of EU Member States: Visa for humanitarian reasons
We Free Democrats demand that asylum applications can also be made abroad in the embassies of EU Member States.
It must be possible to get to Europe safely without making a life-threatening journey and at risk of falling into the hands of traffickers.
Humanitarian visas should also be issued where it is clear in individual cases that the life and limb of the applicant is directly, seriously and concretely at risk.
To this end, clear rules should be laid down in European law.
Expand Frontex for external border and sea rescue
We Free Democrats call for a faster expansion of the EU border agency Frontex to the planned staff of 10,000, accompanied by structural reform and an expansion of control and transparency mechanisms.
Germany must play a greater part in this.
An area without internal borders requires strong protection of external borders.
In many cases, Member States can no longer do this on their own.
A strong European Border Agency to support them in this is therefore in the interest of all Member States, and in particular of Germany.
Frontex should also take on the task of sea rescue in order to finally put an end to the cruel deaths in the Mediterranean.
This is a state task.
As long as this is not guaranteed, private bodies undertaking this task must not be hindered.
The pushbacks that have taken place with Frontex - the illegal repatriation of migrants - must be taken very seriously.
We are committed to investigating such incidents and to strengthening mechanisms to prevent human rights violations.
In this way, we will strengthen European border management, improve maritime rescue and ensure respect for human rights at the EU's external borders.
Mission statement Basic Law
We Free Democrats are calling for a vision of integration policy.
This includes the Basic Law with its catalogue of fundamental rights, is independent of religion and reflects social diversity in unity.
It is intended to emphasize the principles of openness to the world, tolerance and personal responsibility as the basis of integration and to make them understandable from the history of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Language and integration courses must therefore be offered nationwide and free of charge from day one, but must also be accepted.
The main aim of integration courses must be to convey respect for our legal system and democracy, in particular equality between women and men, acceptance of different sexual orientations and gender identities, and tolerance of all forms of belief and non-belief.
Demanding and promoting integration
We Free Democrats want an integration policy that welcomes diversity and therefore invites immigrants to become part of our society, but also demands their own integration performance.
We want to seize the opportunities of immigration for Germany, because our country depends on immigration.
Integration is the key to immigrants becoming part of our society and contributing to its success.
That is why we want to promote integration: through offers to learn our language and our social order, Canadian-style integration sponsors, and additional integration measures aimed specifically at women, children and the elderly, but also at particularly vulnerable groups of people.
Bureaucratic obstacles in the immigration and integration process, as well as in taking up work, such as the priority examination or the blocking period for asylum seekers, must be reduced and partnerships established with countries of origin.
Recruitment strategies must be developed locally with selected partner countries, for example with language courses and preparation courses for life in Germany.
For a liberal citizenship law
We Free Democrats see the granting of German citizenship as the result and goal of successful integration into German society.
Therefore, clear criteria must be met for granting citizenship.
It is valuable for coexistence in the country of immigration, Germany, if people who were born in Germany or who will spend their entire lives in Germany also become legally part of the national people through naturalisation.
In principle, German citizenship law should also permit multi-nationality in the event of naturalisation.
From the grandchild generation of the first naturalised person, people should have to choose a nationality, unless there are legal or economic disadvantages associated with the loss of the second nationality, they cannot renounce it or it concerns the nationality of an EU Member State.
We also call for easier access to German citizenship for immigrants after a total of four years.
A settlement permit is to be granted after only three years if the applicant has lived in Germany with a valid residence permit during this period and can prove that he or she has language skills and that his or her family is fully covered.
The acquisition of German citizenship should be possible regardless of the immigration route, provided that an additional naturalisation test is passed and the commitment to the legal system of our Basic Law is made.
Withdrawal of dual nationality must not be a means of averting danger or punishment.
Otherwise, citizens with another nationality would only be second-class citizens.
For all new citizens, we want naturalisation ceremonies to be held across the country using the symbols of the Federal Republic.
