We protect refugees
Implementing a human rights-oriented refugee policy in Europe
We are in favour of a European Union that respects its humanitarian and legal obligation to guarantee access to the fundamental right to asylum and the need to conduct proceedings fairly and expeditiously in accordance with international law standards.
Difficult as that is in the EU of 27 at the moment.
Germany plays a central role in this.
The new Federal Government must defend human rights and the right to asylum.
Conditions such as those in the camps on the Greek islands, on the Mediterranean or on the border with Croatia represent a breach of European values and human rights.
We are countering the blockade of a common and humane refugee policy between the Member States with the following plan: in Community registration centres run by the European institutions in the EU states with external borders controlled by the rule of law and by the European Union, refugees are to be registered and undergo an initial check to see whether entries are available in security-relevant databases.
In this way, we know who is coming to us and, at the same time, we assume our humanitarian responsibility.
The people who come to Europe must receive first medical and psychological care and must be housed in accordance with human rights.
Taking into account personal circumstances such as family ties or language skills, the EU Agency for Asylum determines as soon as possible the host Member State for the implementation of the asylum procedure.
The underlying rapid distribution mechanism is based, first and foremost, on the willingness of Member States, regions and cities to accept refugees voluntarily.
Those who do so receive assistance from an EU integration fund.
If reception places are not sufficient, all Member States will be obliged to increase their offer in relation to gross domestic product and population size or make at least an equivalent contribution to the total cost.
The asylum procedure will then take place in the receiving Member State.
Early examinations of asylum procedures at the external borders are incompatible with this.
The Commission ensures that common rules and standards are respected and apply to all people.
We will move forward with countries and regions willing to act to put an end to the current catastrophic situation at the external borders.
We reject inhumane camps and closed facilities, transit zones or European sub-camps in third countries.
Creating safe and legal escape routes
No one should have to risk his or her own life or that of his or her family for the right to seek asylum enshrined in international law.
But this is exactly the bitter reality: the possibilities for safe access routes are still far from sufficient, and refugees are therefore forced to resort to life-threatening routes through the desert or across the sea.
We want to create safe and legal access routes so people can find protection and prevent people smugglers from profiting from the plight and suffering of refugees.
We are committed to the special protection of the family in accordance with the Basic Law, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Human Rights and advocate the lifting of restrictions on family reunification.
Families belong together and the welfare of the child is paramount.
People with subsidiary protection status must therefore also be able to catch up with their relatives without the previous restrictions and be treated on an equal footing with refugees under the Geneva Convention.
We want to make sibling reunification possible again.
German and European embassies need more staff and the opportunity to submit digital applications in order to shorten waiting times for visas for family members.
In cases where the procurement of proof of identity by persons entitled to protection from authorities in their country of origin endangers nationals living there, we advocate the pragmatic issuance of replacement passports.
Even with humanitarian visas, we want to give those in need of protection the opportunity to come safely to Europe and apply for asylum here.
We are also committed to welcoming local Afghan personnel and their families who are at risk as a result of their cooperation with German institutions such as the Bundeswehr or the GIZ.
The individual right of asylum remains untouched.
Safe Access through Humanitarian Reception Partnership
Within the framework of the UNHCR resettlement programme, refugees recognised by the United Nations as particularly vulnerable are distributed in a spirit of solidarity and in an orderly manner to the host countries, rather than leaving them to their fate on dangerous escape routes.
This saves lives, takes the business away from smugglers and follows a tried and tested, predictable process.
In the Global Compact for Refugees, the international community has agreed to step up resettlement.
But, in fact, the number of places has been falling for years.
Together with the new US administration and Canada, as well as others in a global humanitarian partnership, we propose to significantly expand admission from the resettlement programme and, in the medium term, to achieve the fulfilment of at least the fair share of the annual resettlement needs determined by the UNHCR in line with economic strength.
In this way, we will strengthen the United Nations, fulfil Europe's global responsibility in the long term, create predictability on all sides, lead by example and encourage other states to join the international alliance.
In addition, we will ensure that the planned EU resettlement is based on the UNHCR criteria.
The individual right of asylum remains unaffected by the resettlement.
Enable national admission programmes and a sponsorship programme
Several federal states and more than 200 municipalities in Germany are prepared to take in more refugees than promised by the Federal Government.
That these additional reception centres are urgently needed is obvious in view of the miserable conditions in the camps at the EU's external borders, such as on the Greek islands or on the Bosnian-Croatian border.
We want a humanitarian reception policy in which the federal government and the Länder cooperate and which no longer ignores the readiness of municipalities and Länder to accept refugees.
Countries, districts, cities and municipalities should be given more say and influence when it comes to the humanitarian reception of refugees.
By amending the consent rule between the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the Länder by mutual agreement, we want to make it clear that the Länder will in future be able to decide independently and freely for the reception of refugees beyond the Königstein Key.
The federal government should continue to fulfil its financial and infrastructural tasks and promote readiness to accept refugees.
European funds can also be used within the framework of the host countries and regions.
We will once again step up federal humanitarian reception programmes as well as quotas from EU countries with external borders.
A Canada-style sponsorship program can foster a culture of welcome.
Groups of mentors or associations can promise to support refugees and thus help people concretely through relocation and resettlement opportunities.
Ensuring the rule of law and human rights at the external borders
A common area of free movement and without internal borders needs controlled external borders.
However, borders are controlled by the rule of law only if human rights are protected at these borders and access to the right to asylum is guaranteed.
It is a disgrace that thousands of people drown in the Mediterranean every year because European governments do not allow them safe access and refuse to rescue them from distress at sea.
We continue to argue for a civil and comprehensive, European-coordinated and financed sea rescue.
Since joint action by all European Member States does not seem possible at the moment, we want to go ahead with those states that take rescue at sea seriously as an obligation under international law and make our own contribution: those rescued must be taken to the nearest safe harbour, and then, following a distribution mechanism, immediately distributed among Member States, regions or cities that are ready to receive them.
We stand firmly alongside civil society rescue initiatives and call for an end to the criminalisation and official obstruction of their work.
In this way, we want to make the registration of vessels belonging to human rights observation and rescue organisations legally secure and easier.
We are banking on a European border control system that is based on the common protection of human rights and performs its tasks without misusing them to prevent refugees from fleeing.
Asylum law is based on a case-by-case examination, and the principle of non-refoulement, enshrined in international and European law, applies always and everywhere.
The Geneva Convention on Refugees is fully applicable.
Their erosion does not lead to greater security or to greater European capacity to act in refugee policy.
Nevertheless, we are currently witnessing a systematic breach of the law at the EU's external borders: people are mistreated, left defenceless on the water or turned away without access to asylum procedures.
Pushbacks committed by national border police or Frontex must be punished legally and politically.
Germany must not take part in operations that violate international and human rights law; violations must be prosecuted and have consequences.
We will work to ensure that EU agencies such as Frontex no longer have room for non-transparency and human rights violations.
We support the European initiatives that seek to remedy the structural problems of human rights protection in border controls with structural changes.
We want to expand state and civil society human rights monitoring, particularly through the EU Fundamental Rights Agency.
Close parliamentary control of Frontex operations and systematic human rights monitoring on the ground are needed.
Supporting host and transit countries
Humanitarian care for refugees outside the European Union is part of our global responsibility.
We want to increase financial and logistical support for first-time host and transit countries such as Turkey, Lebanon, Sudan, Pakistan or Uganda, as well as the aid organisations working there.
German and European cooperation with third countries must always take place in such a way that human and fundamental rights as well as international asylum standards are respected.
It must also not be aimed at preventing flight, as is currently the case with the so-called Libyan coastguard and the Erdogan government.
We therefore reject the existing migration partnerships, which make refuge and repatriation a condition of development cooperation, for example, as well as cooperation with the Libyan coastguard.
Instead of defining safe countries of origin, we need human rights-compliant readmission agreements for returns.
We want to offer those countries that effectively guarantee security to their citizens after their return a reliable prospect of orderly migration in return for visa facilitation or training partnerships.
However, readmission agreements must not be made a condition in other policy areas, such as aid for development or the rule of law, nor must they apply to third-country nationals or undermine immigration law.
Structurally addressing the causes of flight
We are aware that we cannot influence all the causes of displacement.
Many people flee because they are persecuted or deprived of basic rights.
Consistent action is all the more crucial wherever our economy and consumption elsewhere lead to exploitation or lack of prospects.
In this way, we want to prevent people from fleeing at all and from having to leave their previous homes involuntarily.
That is why we are putting the structural causes of flight and displacement and our responsibility towards them at the heart of our policy.
Many of the political decisions we make in Germany and Europe have a direct impact on living conditions in other regions of the world.
We are therefore strongly in favour of civilian crisis prevention and want to put an end to European arms exports to dictatorships, regimes that violate human rights and to war zones by means of restrictive export controls.
We are committed to a fair trading system that also serves the interests of the people of the Global South.
And we are driving the socio-ecological transformation of our economy.
