Media
Restructuring public service broadcasting
Free radio for free citizens!
The public service broadcasting system is outdated.
Broadcasting treaties must be amended in each federal state to allow for fundamental reform.
The end result is a greatly reduced provider, which is to have approximately one tenth of the previous scope.
<unk>'s primary mission is to provide citizens across the country with neutral content from the information, culture and education sectors.
Importantly, regional content remains <unk>'s lean home radio as a showcase of the regions.
Compulsory contributions and advertising are eliminated.
It will be financed by a levy paid in particular by technology groups distributing audiovisual content and video streaming services.
They dominate the German market without paying taxes or levies in an appropriate way.
<unk>'s CRAIG HOPE
Any censorship of expression is an attack on the fundamental right to freedom of expression.
Supremacy in social media and education must not be misused to influence political decision-making unilaterally.
As a quasi-oligopoly, we want to oblige the providers of large social media such as Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to respect the freedom of expression of their users.
The Internet must be preserved as a place of free expression.
<unk>'s fact-checkers and opinion-formers should not receive government funding.
The government also influences the private media through subsidies, shareholdings in companies, and government advertising financing.
We reject this partisan media influence.
We want to ban the participation of parties in media companies.
Freedom of expression instead of virtue terror
Diffuse notions of political correctness stifle public debate by banning speech and thought.
Facts are twisted and controversial topics taboo.
The merging of the old parties into a political opinion cartel has solidified left-wing dominance in public broadcasting and private mainstream media.
Freedom of science, research and teaching is also at risk.
Professional sanctions, social ostracism and violent attacks reduce the constitutionally guaranteed freedoms to theory.
This has been horribly demonstrated in the Corona crisis.
