German culture instead of multiculturalism
Our identity is shaped by our German language, our values, our history and our culture.
The latter are closely linked to Christianity, the Enlightenment, our artistic and scientific works.
Our identity determines the fundamental values that are passed down from generation to generation.
The German culture describes our culture, which is identity-building for our people and distinguishes us from others.
It ensures the cohesion of society and is a prerequisite for the functioning of our state.
The non-profit culture is the bedrock of our constitution and cannot be replaced by constitutional patriotism.
Culturalism and multiculturalism - parallel societies that lack common values for living together.
In such a fragmented society, conflicts arise that are hardly manageable.
The AfD will not allow Germany to lose its traditional culture out of misunderstood tolerance of Islam.
The German language as the centre of our identity
The national language is the heart of a cultural nation.
As a central element of German identity, the AfD wants to enshrine the German language as the state language in the Basic Law.
German must not be pushed back by other languages.
German must be preserved as a teaching and scientific language.
The so-called gender-neutral language is a grotesque disfigurement of the German language.
It does not create equality.
Language must not be a pawn of ideological interests.
In particular, we reject any obligation to use such language, and we reject any obligation to use it.
Use of light language should be restricted to cognitively impaired individuals.
Cultural promotion
The promotion of cultural institutions must be transparent.
State support for culture must not be misused to influence political decision-making.
associations and foundations that are supported by the state must profess their commitment to the liberal democratic basic order.
The AfD is committed to the cultural sovereignty of the federal states and wants to limit the cultural-political activities of the federal government.
Artistic freedom must be preserved in the promotion of film.
Identity-political requirements of state film funding are to be rejected.
Customs and remembrance
Customs create identity and build communities.
That is why we want to cultivate our traditions and our dialects, to which local cultural associations make an important contribution.
The suffering of displaced persons must not be forgotten.
Monuments and local architecture shape the feeling of home and cultural identity.
The beauty of historic inner cities must be preserved and, if necessary, restored through reconstructions.
German history is to be appreciated in its entirety.
She must not focus on the low points of our history, she must also focus on the high points.
A nation without national consciousness cannot survive in the long run.
The AfD is a smear campaign against what it sees as an unjust state.
s cultural, technological and economic achievements in the Federal Republic.
We are increasingly opposed to an ideological attempt to rewrite history, to tear down monuments and rename streets.
The aggression directed against the imperial empire and the German emperor is not only directed at this past state, but at the German nation itself.
The debate over whether our cultural identity as a whole is in danger of being overshadowed by a white man's debauchery calls into question the very concept of our cultural identity.
The AfD is the only political force opposing this dismantling of our historical and cultural identity.
We reject the so-called race theory that racism against whites is not possible.
The AfD also opposes the return of collection items from colonial contexts.
We are also committed to establishing, and finally implementing, an information centre for the victims of communist tyranny.
