10.6.A modern media landscape
For us, free and pluralistic media are the cornerstones of a responsible democratic society.
The further development of a diverse and sophisticated media system consisting of press, radio and online services remains a central component of our media policy.
We are committed to strong, independent public service broadcasting.
We are committed to reforming the contract to take account of technological progress and changes in usage patterns.
We want to encourage and enable broadcasters to enter into stronger cooperation and create further synergies - also in the interests of contributors.
We want to make Deutsche Welle the strongest foreign broadcaster in Europe.
All citizens should be able to obtain good information about what is happening on the ground.
Subscription newspapers and advertisements are essential.
We will develop targeted tools to promote sales, further support and distribution, including financial support as well as facilitating the employment of delivery staff.
Setting the right framework for digital media use
In recent years, the diversity of opinion around the world has increased - due to digital change, increasing media convergence, innovations and the accompanying increased reach.
At the same time, the unregulated advance of digital corporations has created risks: opinion discrimination, manipulation, abuse of market and opinion power, or invasion of privacy.
Modern and new rules and control mechanisms are therefore needed.
Our aim is to strengthen the media and news literacy of all citizens.
We also want to increase the level of protection for young people on the Internet.
The big digital corporations must take responsibility and - where necessary - be regulated.
Citizens should also be able to trust the accuracy of news in the digital world.
Private and public audiovisual media, as well as journalistic and editorial content whose contribution is of value to the community, should be easier to find on modern media platforms.
We will set the framework conditions in such a way that the offerings of the art and creative industries can be sustainably refinanced in the digital era.
