10.5.Germany as a cultural nation
Culture is an important location factor.
But it is above all one thing: it is an expression of humanity.
Culture creates identity, community and cohesion.
Cultural education and a vibrant cultural infrastructure are part of the everyday life of all citizens as part of services of general interest.
The opportunity to experience art and culture - whether broad-based culture or top culture - is a decisive prerequisite for equal living conditions throughout Germany.
We will consistently continue our successful cultural policy in the municipalities, the Länder and, above all, in the federal government with the involvement of cultural associations.
We are making every effort to regain the high annual growth of the cultural and creative industries and their impressive economic dynamism achieved before the pandemic.
This sector, with its 1.8 million employees, stands like no other for creative renewal, but also for cultural diversity and artistic quality.
To mitigate the impact of the pandemic, <unk>'s reboot programme will continue for all players and divisions.
We support rural culture through funding programmes such as <unk> Culture in Rural Areas, the Heritage Protection Special Programme and the Future Cinema Programme.
We are strengthening the cultural and creative industries and Germany as a film location, and thus not only culture, but also an important economic factor.
To this end, we will continue to support film, music, literature, publishing and games and will coordinate the funding instruments of the Federal Government, the Länder and the Film Promotion Agency more closely.
The German language is a particularly important part of our identity.
We want to continue to promote and value it as a cultural, official and colloquial language.
We preserve our traditions.
For the CDU and CSU, cultural federalism in Germany, with its historically grown wealth of regional identities, is an enriching force of diversity that must be preserved.
We stand for the care and preservation of old customs, traditional costumes and folk dances as well as local songs.
In particular, we will support amateur and amateur music as well as independent ensembles.
The four national minorities in Germany - Danes, Sorbs, Frisians, German Sinti and Roma - belong with their traditions to the cultural diversity of our country, which must be preserved.
Existing subsidies are therefore to be continued.
In the interest of sustainability, we want to make our contribution to ensuring that cultural institutions, film productions or cultural events significantly reduce their ecological footprint.
Social security for artists is important to us.
We will therefore strengthen artists "social insurance and provide better protection for artists and creatives by permanently extending protection in statutory sickness and long-term care insurance for independent non-artistic ancillary work.
We will also look at how to develop unemployment insurance for employees in the cultural sector.
Keeping Memory Culture Alive
The projects to preserve the culture of remembrance, the reappraisal of the Nazi era and the SED dictatorship to sharpen the consciousness of future generations against anti-Semitism, racism and extremism remain permanent tasks for us.
With the <unk> Places in the History of German Democracy Foundation, we will look back at democratic moments in historic places to strengthen the forces of civil society and the resilience of our democracy.
The federal program reminds <unk> we want to expand and take eyewitness work into the digital age.
Provenance research, especially on Nazi art theft as well as on the confiscation of cultural property during the SED dictatorship and colonialism, will remain the focus of cultural policy.
Likewise, the protection of artists who are persecuted abroad and seek exile in Germany remains an important concern for us.
