Protecting freedom of the press and expression
Freedom of the press and freedom of expression are fundamental pillars of our liberal and open democratic society.
For our society thrives on a free and unbiased competition of opinions.
We Free Democrats therefore stand for an active and open debate culture that promotes and protects diversity of opinion.
At the same time, it must allow dissent while respecting the views of others.
Fundamental communication rights do not protect against social conflicts or other views.
Unfortunately, online crime, hate and incitement continue to increase.
The state has a duty here to act decisively and effectively protect personal rights and freedom of expression.
Abolish Network Enforcement Act
We Free Democrats want to abolish the Network Enforcement Act (NetzDG) and replace it with a regulatory mix that fully protects freedom of expression.
We are committed to more effective prosecution of online crime.
Until now, the NetzDG has unilaterally provided an incentive to delete content, leaving the decision on the limits of freedom of expression solely in the hands of social networks.
We want to reduce their influence by establishing self-regulation as a complaints body.
It is primarily the task of the state to take action against criminal acts on the Internet.
Strengthen the protection of victims of crime and personal rights violations on the Internet
We Free Democrats want to empower victims of online crime to defend themselves by giving them a right to information against platforms and internet providers, as they do under copyright law.
If the perpetrator remains anonymous and does not respond to being contacted, blocking the account should also be considered.
Social networks should also be required to appoint fully competent domestic delivery agents.
Public service broadcasting needs procurement and structural reform
We Free Democrats want a more modern and streamlined public service broadcasting (ÖRR), which should focus primarily on news, culture, political education and documentaries.
We want to reduce the contribution to broadcasting.
The number of television and radio channels operated by broadcasters must be reduced.
Unnecessary parallel offers are to be avoided.
On the Internet, the ÖRR should be limited to areas that are comparable to or directly related to classical broadcasting.
A functioning dual media system needs balance.
The proportionality between broadcasting contribution and competition must be maintained.
Competition with every Internet offer of private press and media houses is not the task of the ÖRR.
We want to strengthen the diversity of media and opinion.
Press Information Act and Protection of the Work of the Press
We Free Democrats are calling for a press information law at the federal level and for attacks on the media to be included in police crime statistics.
Whistleblowers should not be prosecuted under employment, personnel or criminal law if they disclose criminal offences or unlawful conduct.
The prerequisite is that they have previously exhausted the service route or that it was unreasonable.
Whistleblowers should also be protected from prosecution by foreign states.
The EU directive on the protection of whistleblowers is to be transposed into German law immediately.
