Culture
Germany can look back on a long tradition as a cultural nation.
We Free Democrats want to safeguard the diversity and freedom of cultural life and make it accessible to all people in our country.
For us, this includes strengthening cultural promotion and education.
We are also committed to a strong cultural and creative economy as an important sector of our country, which has been particularly hard hit by the Corona crisis.
Sustainable strengthening of cultural promotion
We Free Democrats are committed to increasing the federal budget for national and international cultural promotion.
Cultural promotion is not a subsidy, but an investment in the future of our country.
For free development, the arts need support, because what is new and original is often beyond self-sustaining marketing.
We want an increase in institutional support to strengthen the independence of the institutions.
In doing so, Germany is doing justice to its role as a cultural nation.
Support for the self-employed in the cultural and creative industries
We Free Democrats are committed to a strong cultural and creative economy as an important economic sector in Germany.
We also want to open up support programmes for smaller enterprises and solo self-employed people in the cultural and creative industries.
We want to simplify funding applications.
Online formats such as live streams are also part of a vibrant creative industry.
That is why we want to exempt online live streams from the broadcasting licence requirement.
Culture as a state objective
We Free Democrats are committed to enshrining culture as a state objective in the Basic Law by including Article 20b with the phrase "The state protects and promotes culture."
That would be a strong sign of the importance of culture in Germany as part of our common European cultural area.
We regard this as a choice of values, because it is about protecting intellectual and creative work as the livelihood of many thousands of citizens.
Strengthening cultural education
We Free Democrats want to invest ten per cent of the annual budget of public and publicly funded cultural organisations in cultural education.
The cultural (placement) offer should be open to people of all ages and regardless of social and cultural origin.
Only cultural education opens up access to culture for all.
Strengthen memorial culture and modernise memorial concept
We Free Democrats want to modernise the memorial concept.
The reappraisal and mediation of the injustice of the two German dictatorships of National Socialism and the GDR remains a continuous task.
By coming to terms with history, we can raise awareness of the value of freedom and civil rights.
Strengthening historical sites with more digital offerings and innovative communication concepts makes it possible to build bridges with younger generations in order to contribute to increasing awareness of freedom.
Cultural Heritage Act to be revised to strengthen property rights
We Free Democrats want to see the repeal of those parts of the Cultural Property Protection Act (KGSG) that do not relate to illegally removed cultural property.
A purchase fund must be set up for the purchase of important works of art by the public authorities.
Illegal trade in cultural goods must be combated effectively.
Customs and police should be able to do this.
We reject any unnecessary state interference in property rights.
The rules protecting national treasures from migration interfere massively with the property rights of private collectors and the freedom of art and auction houses to conduct business.
Only in this way can a free fluctuation of works of art and a free cultural exchange be made possible.
Combating illicit trafficking in cultural goods is not a matter of legal regulations, but of a lack of capacity on the part of the competent authorities.
Strengthening cultural relations policy
We Free Democrats want to strengthen cultural relations policy as Germany's flagship in the world.
The work of intermediary organisations such as the Goethe Institute and the Institute for Foreign Cultural Relations is to be further promoted and expanded with a view to digital offerings.
At the same time, we support voluntary cooperation between the national cultural institutes of the EU Member States in third countries.
The European External Action Service should set up a working unit for international cultural relations.
European Heritage Trust
We Free Democrats want an EU-wide cultural fund, modelled on the National Trust Europe, to be set up in Britain to protect Europe's cultural heritage.
As an umbrella organisation, this fund is intended to promote the establishment and further development of organisations committed to the protection of monuments and to network them with each other throughout the EU.
The long-term goal is to create the European Heritage Trust, an institution largely self-financing through membership fees, entrance fees and commercial operations.
Copyright: Ensuring a fair balance of interests and fundamental rights on the Internet
We Free Democrats want modern copyright law.
However, current copyright law lags behind social and technological development and stifles innovation.
We Free Democrats want to develop copyright in a measured manner, along the lines of the American principle of fair use, and to do so by removing the current limitations of copyright through a trivial clause for private use that has no economic consequences and - like many now commonplace uses such as memes and remixes - does not pursue commercial interests.
We want to abolish the ancillary right for press publishers.
The relationship between artistic freedom and the protection of intellectual property must be rethought in the digital age, while at the same time protecting the author of a work in his or her economic and intellectual rights.
This is a prerequisite for a vibrant cultural and creative economy.
However, we continue to reject the use of upload filters as an immense threat to freedom of expression and art on the net.
In addition, we are working to ensure that government information can no longer be withheld from the public by reference to copyright, as a kind of secret protection by the back door.
