We promote culture, the arts and sport
Crisis-proof structures for culture
The arts are free and do not have to serve any purpose.
At the same time, they are of central importance for the self-reflection of society, the cohesion and the personality formation of the individual.
We want the cultural landscape after the pandemic, with its months of closures, to find new vitality, diversity and richness, and for culture and cultural education to finally become a matter of course part of services of general interest.
That is why we want to enshrine culture as a state objective in the Basic Law.
A sustainable (reconstruction) strategy must strengthen municipal finances as an important basis for cultural life, reform the right to grant grants, facilitate more cooperation between the federal government, the Länder and municipalities in the financing of cultural institutions and projects, and establish a fund to protect cultural institutions from displacement and demolition, which safeguards cultural sites such as clubs in the long term.
In future, public funding for culture should be participatory, inclusive and gender-balanced, and based on transparent criteria.
Equally, there needs to be an equal appreciation of the funding and framework conditions for all cultural forms and sectors, for the independent scene and institutionally supported cultural institutions.
Better safeguarding of cultural workers and creatives
The Corona crisis shows the precarious conditions under which many cultural and media professionals work.
For a diverse cultural landscape, a safeguard is needed that offers freedom and enables artistic and creative creation.
We are committed to good working and training conditions and fair pay, so that precarious working conditions at private and especially public cultural institutions can be overcome.
Solo self-employed and cultural workers are to be protected for the time of the Corona crisis with a subsistence allowance of 1,200 euros per month.
But there is also a need for protection beyond that.
The Künstlersozialkasse (KSK) must be financially strengthened, legal certainty must be created for membership in the KSK, including for artists who are only temporarily employed for productions subject to insurance, and voluntary further insurance for the self-employed in the unemployment insurance system must be simplified.
It is important to ensure that authors receive adequate remuneration for their works.
Adequate participation, in particular in the profits of distribution platforms, ensures that cultural and media professionals can continue to earn money from their works.
In the case of digital content, users should not be placed in a worse position in terms of lending and resale than in the case of analogue goods.
For this reason, libraries should be allowed to lend e-books that have proven their worth for physical books under the same conditions without having to enter into licensing agreements.
Culture in society
Active cultural life is the basis of democratic societies.
This is where the debate about how we want to live takes place.
That is why society in all its diversity must be visible in cultural creation.
We want to open and strengthen cultural institutions so that everyone has easy access to them and can use and design their offerings.
Existing social, financial or structural obstacles must be removed, for example by providing free admission for pupils to state museums, by opening public libraries on Sundays or by providing a cultural pass for people on low incomes.
We want to continuously and comprehensively promote cultural offerings that take into account the situation and needs in their city or municipality and understand this as their central task for the future.
In rural areas, but also in urban centres, cultural institutions are to become hubs of encounters and so-called "third places," providing access to culture for people who have so far benefited little from it.
In the appointment of directors, in the composition of state-sponsored cultural enterprises, in the awarding of scholarships and work contracts and in state juries, we want to introduce a quota system to ensure gender equality, as well as to promote flat hierarchies and participatory structures.
Adequate representation of diverse societies must also be ensured.
Issues such as sustainability, diversity and inclusive participation must be an integral part of training in cultural professions.
We also want to promote cultural diversity and transculturality, i.e. the interpenetration of cultures.
Making the cultural enterprise more ecological
The cultural sector and the arts can play an important role in overcoming the climate crisis.
There are many initiatives and actors who are working hard to conserve resources and to organise the cultural sector ecologically.
We will support this commitment through a central advisory centre, the Green Culture Desk, and establish a Green Culture Fund as a funding instrument.
Artists also provide important impulses for sustainable transformation.
In the sense of a fund for aesthetics and sustainability, we want to create an instrument for cross-departmental, transdisciplinary support that enables the establishment of long-term structures and creates free spaces for experimentation and action.
This also refers to hybrid models of cooperation between artists, scientists and actors in civil society.
Strengthen film and cinema culture and lead into the digital age
In view of the rapid change in forms of production and distribution, we want to strengthen film as a formative medium of the moving image and cinema as a public cultural site.
In order to increase the artistic quality and attractiveness of German and European film, we simplify decision-making processes: we unbundle the structure of television broadcasters and a multitude of committees in favour of criteria-based, automatic funding and focus more on the promotion of material and screenplays as well as young talent.
Binding quotas ensure that women have equal opportunities in film.
Minimum social standards and fair distribution channels improve the economic situation of filmmakers.
Organic production is rewarded with financial incentives.
We support cinemas and festivals with reliable funding instruments.
Strengthen and open the culture of remembrance
A culture of remembrance contributes decisively to self-understanding and cohesion and is a fundamental prerequisite for the protection of our democracy.
But there are still gaps in the reappraisal of German crime history.
National Socialism must continue to be dealt with consistently.
We want to honour and recognise previously little-noticed victims groups such as the so-called <unk> Anti-Social <unk>, <unk> Professional Criminals <unk> and <unk> Euthanasia <unk> Victims through appropriate compensation.
Their life stories as well as the crime scenes of the murders will be researched and marked.
The focus is on financial support for research, the further development of the pedagogical and scientific work of the memorials and the further processing and return of Nazi looted art.
This also includes fulfilling further obligations towards countries that suffered under the German occupation.
The SED dictatorship is also to be further processed by continuing research and political education work at the branch offices of the Federal Commissioner for Stasi Documents.
Places of remembrance of the peaceful revolution of 1989, German reunification and the subsequent profound transformation processes in East Germany will be promoted by the Federal Government.
We also want to give greater support to the regional reprocessing initiatives in their work and advocate unbureaucratic and higher compensation payments for the victims and persecuted of the SED dictatorship.
We also want to create legal regulations for the return of looted art from the Nazi and DDR periods.
Through a central place of remembrance and learning, we will raise awareness of the continuities of colonialism and thus promote a social debate about our colonial heritage, which will enable an anti-racist perspective on history and society.
To this end, the critical reappraisal of colonial crimes and the decolonization of public spaces are central, and extensive provenance research, digitalization and transparent publication as well as binding regulations for the restitution of cultural heritage from colonial contexts are required.
This can only be achieved in close cooperation with the descendants and civil society initiatives of the former colonized and damaged people worldwide.
At the same time, the German culture of remembrance must open up to the diverse experiences and stories of people who have immigrated to Germany or whose history is interwoven with that of Germany, and the memorial concept must be developed accordingly.
We will also work for an active culture of remembrance in all public institutions.
