Culture: Crisis-proof, diverse and accessible to all
Culture and art in their manifold forms are indispensable and relevant to democracy for all of us.
The freedom of art is protected in art. 5, paragraph 3 of the Basic Law and thus constitutes a fundamental right.
However, art and culture can only be free and fulfil their social tasks if the promotion of culture is not regarded in large parts as a voluntary task of the Länder and municipalities.
DIE LINKE advocates that cultural promotion is regarded as a duty, i.e. the state not only protects art and culture, but also promotes it.
Art and culture help us to look at different perspectives on our social interactions and grievances, to investigate and question their causes, and to enable us to improve conditions for all people in solidarity.
To contribute to the overcoming of social inequality and all cultural oppression is the task of progressive, enlightened culture, whose content and goal is a humanistic conception of man and the comprehensive development of the associated individuals in solidarity.
DIE LINKE advocates a diverse, emancipatory and participatory culture that is accessible to all and affordable for all.
In metropolises as well as in rural areas, in cultural institutions and the free scene.
Cultural diversity thrives on a broad concept of culture.
These include participatory open spaces for children and young people, socio-cultural centres, urban club culture, club culture, municipal cinemas and theatres, orchestras, inter- and transcultural places of cultural education, libraries as well as spaces for experimental arts, museum facilities and a living culture of remembrance.
At the same time, we also understand cultural support as infrastructure support.
In this sense, we want to maintain, develop and expand the cultural infrastructure in the city and the countryside.
DIE LINKE opposes the economization and privatization of services of general interest.
Culture is primarily the responsibility of the Länder and municipalities.
Cultural cuts already taking place in many places at municipal and state level are harbingers of distributional struggles to come with the changed budgetary situation following the Corona crisis.
The Corona crisis confronts the states and municipalities with considerable financial problems, which they cannot solve on their own.
Against this backdrop, DIE LINKE is calling for, among other things, a wealth tax and a wealth levy to cope with the costs of the crisis and to finance permanent support programmes (see chapter "Redirecting taxes").
Local government debt and compulsory austerity would not only hit first, but exacerbate the financial crisis.
Culture must therefore become a joint task of the federal government, the Länder and municipalities.
The federal government's ineffective pandemic response is also being played out on the backs of people working in the cultural sector, who have been in permanent lockdown for months.
The government has failed to provide a social solution for cultural workers.
On the one hand, the Corona aid does not take up the reality of life and work of many cultural workers.
On the other hand, many aid programmes present major obstacles for small and medium-sized cultural enterprises.
However, the Corona crisis is also exacerbating problems that existed before the crisis, because culture is not sufficiently financed.
We therefore stand for continuous dialogue with actors in the cultural scene and support protests by cultural professionals and employees in the event industry.
DIE LINKE wants to enable the self-employed, freelancers and the arts, culture, media and creative sectors to resume their activities.
Access to a monthly lump sum of at least €1,200 for the duration of the coronary pandemic will also be retroactive from March 2020.
DIE LINKE wants to make culture crisis-proof and fights for good, livelihood-securing work and social security in the cultural sector.
Temporary, low-paid jobs and the high proportion of project funding, particularly in the independent sector, do not allow reserves to be built up.
The accompanying unstable living and working conditions turn out to be less than crisis-proof.
Crisis-induced change also offers the opportunity to establish more sustainable, gender-equitable and crisis-proof support systems.
We demand the inclusion of all in the statutory social security systems (pension, health, long-term care and unemployment insurance) in order to improve the social protection of unsteady employees and the self-employed.
The artists "social insurance fund must be opened up to other occupational groups and the federal subsidy increased.
We demand binding minimum standards of remuneration in free art and cultural work, industry-specific fee limits and a legally secured exhibition remuneration for visual artists.
The negotiating position of creatives in copyright contract law must be strengthened and their participation rights vis-à-vis collecting societies must be strengthened.
We reject the trend of universities to set up collecting societies.
They are non-transparent, difficult to control and orient research towards profit rather than knowledge and the common good.
DIE LINKE fights for a science, which serves the common good and not the profit orientation.
DIE LINKE wants to put the Federal Cultural Promotion on a new basis and reform funding systems.
Federal cultural funding must be made more sustainable, more process-oriented, less bureaucratic and less project-oriented.
In this sense, long-term scholarship programmes that enable reserves to be built up are sensible, as is the continuation of the flexibility of the right to grant funding.
When allocating federal funding, social standards, gender equality and diversity are to be established as criteria.
We want to equip the cultural promotion funds according to needs and strengthen them as a central instrument of the independent scene.
The ban on cooperation between the Federation and the Länder must be ended.
We want culture as a joint task and a state objective culture in the Basic Law in order to strengthen cooperative cultural federalism.
We want a Federal Minister of Culture with cabinet rank and a Ministry of Culture in order to be able to represent the interests of culture more effectively vis-à-vis other departments and at European level.
Countries and municipalities must be given sufficient funds to fulfil their tasks in cultural preservation and promotion, in order to avoid tariff fluctuations and to secure a large variety of cultural offerings in the existing stock, including the necessary investments.
DIE LINKE wants to create culture for all and cultural participation.
In order to strengthen equal opportunities, inclusion and diversity, diversity-oriented structural change in the cultural sector must be oriented towards criteria critical of power and discrimination.
Diversity in the cultural sector has an impact on the programme, opening up new perspectives and access to culture and attracting visitors.
To this end, anti-discrimination strategies must be effective across the board.
Structural disadvantage based on social and ethnic origin, class, gender, sexual identity, disability, religion or belief must be eliminated.
Cultural education creates access to art and culture to enable people to engage creatively with themselves and their surroundings.
Places of cultural education therefore serve as spaces for self-education and self-empowerment.
That's why we want to continue and consolidate the federal program that makes culture strong with increased funding.
Federal regulations are intended to allow city planners to take greater account of open spaces for participatory and experimental use.
Club culture is an important and valuable part of our culture, open spaces where people can enjoy music, dance and celebrate.
That is why we want to promote and preserve the club and festival culture.
The club is part of the sell-out, we want to stop it.
Clubs are therefore to be recognised as culture and put on an equal footing with other cultural sites, in particular in tax and construction law.
Art in construction: 3 per cent of the cost of public works is to be spent on works of art.
We insist on compliance with the UNESCO Convention on Cultural Diversity in international trade agreements.
DIE LINKE stands for barrier-free and equal access to culture.
We want to create spaces for dialogue and exchange and promote a change of perspective.
Admission to federally funded museums and collections must be free of charge and the cultural pedagogical staff must be increased.
Cultural institutions must be barrier-free and offer inclusive services.
The experiences of cultural institutions and projects with inter- and transcultural mediation concepts have to be used and disseminated.
We promote and demand the production and protection of temporary and non-institutional, freely accessible arts, such as street art and art in public spaces, in socio-cultural and self-governing centres.
We are committed to comprehensive cooperation between schools and art institutions as well as independent artists.
DIE LINKE wants to secure cultural assets digitally and make them accessible to all.
To achieve this, we need a national digitisation strategy.
We are committed to an open access strategy in the cultural sector as well.
We are creating opportunities and incentives for cultural institutions to license their digital publications freely.
We want to expand our cooperation with the Deutsche Digitale Bibliothek.
For public libraries, we want to simplify the lending of digital media.
We also want to permanently preserve and make accessible our cinematic heritage.
DIE LINKE stands for a lively and plural politics of history and remembrance.
We want to encourage a critical examination of the history of Germany in the 19th and 20th centuries, in particular the reappraisal of the crimes of National Socialism.
The reappraisal and remembrance of colonialism and the associated slave trade and slavery must become more present.
We want to encourage a critical examination of the history of Germany in the 19th and 20th centuries, in particular to come to terms with the crimes of National Socialism and the history of both German societies and states after the Second World War.
The reappraisal and remembrance of colonialism and the associated slave trade and slavery must become more present.
We want to strengthen memorials as places of remembrance, learning and documentation.
Volunteer-led memorial work is to be supported nationwide.
The working conditions of educational staff in museums and memorials, in particular, must be improved.
Together with local initiatives from civil society, we want to process and reflect on postcolonial continuities in order to contribute to a democratic, anti-fascist culture, because remembering means acting.
We want to promote a vibrant culture of remembrance based on the realities of the immigrant society.
Halle 2019 and Hanau 2020: We want to strengthen the memory of the victims of racist and anti-Semitic violence in Germany's recent history.
The aim is to create a legal basis for the return of Nazi looted art and to expand provenance research.
Likewise, the restitution of unlawfully acquired cultural goods from colonial contexts must be regulated by law.
