Strengthen media pluralism, independent journalism and press freedom
Diverse and independent journalism is a prerequisite for democratic opinion and decision-making and is therefore indispensable.
Digitalization, concentration processes in newspapers and editorial offices, private opinion and market power of platforms such as Facebook and Youtube, the increase in hate messages and fake news: the media world is undergoing radical change.
DIE LINKE wants a diverse media landscape, to which, in addition to private providers, a strong public broadcasting and non-commercial media belong.
Public service broadcasting stands for media participation and basic services.
It must be able to respond to changes in media usage, offer journalistic quality and, in addition to news and information, comprehensive perspectives, education, entertainment and cultural diversity.
DIE LINKE wants a broad social debate both on the reforms and the mission of public service broadcasting as well as on journalistic standards in the media landscape.
Our central concerns with regard to public service broadcasting are: we want to compensate and automate the exemptions for entitled persons with public funds and to extend them comprehensively to social institutions and people with disabilities.
The vexed admonition must be scaled back.
DIE LINKE wants to preserve the programming autonomy of the institutions protected by the freedom of broadcasting and to guarantee a task-oriented financing of public broadcasting.
The rights of freelancers and similar workers must be strengthened and they must be given secure income and employment prospects.
We want to expand regionalism instead of cutting it back: new ARD community facilities should also be located in East German federal states.
Strong regional and local coverage by all existing broadcasters must be guaranteed on a permanent basis.
Productions commissioned by third parties should be adequately and fairly remunerated and the award of contracts to external production companies should be linked to compliance with social standards such as collective wages, minimum wage and industry-specific minimum fees.
Public service offerings should be expanded in the sense of an independent platform; fully financed commissioned productions should remain in the media libraries indefinitely; the diversity of sport must be reflected in the programme, because sport is more than football, skiing and major events such as the Olympics.
Democratising sports rights: Financial proportionality of the broadcasting rights and a fairer distribution among clubs (including gender equality!) should be asserted vis-à-vis the rights holders, including the German Football League.
We are committed to transparent and non-discriminatory algorithms.
Whether with private or public media companies: for DIE LINKE, the diversity of society must be reflected in the personnel structure and in the programme, so that more realities of life are reflected.
Journalism and media work must not become a profession that you have to be able to afford.
We therefore want to create good working conditions, gender equality and diversity in the media and film industry.
Media work and education must be inclusive and media use must be diverse and accessible.
Freedom of the press and journalistic work must be guaranteed.
We therefore call for better protection of media professionals from attacks, persecution and violence.
Journalists as professional secretaries as well as their sources must be protected (Whistleblower Protection Act).
Strengthening the rights of the public to information: DIE LINKE advocates a right to press information that ensures the constitutionally guaranteed right of the media to information vis-à-vis federal authorities.
Collective bargaining and fee agreements for the self-employed must be enshrined in law, authors must be enshrined in law and must be possible.
The media market is increasingly dominated by monopolies, accelerated by the Corona crisis.
The market and monopoly power of large digital corporations and platforms must be curbed and democratically controlled, for example, by non-state supervisory structures (see chapter on digitisation).
While some media companies are benefiting from recent developments, others are struggling because of the sharp decline in advertising revenue.
DIE LINKE calls for a nationwide report on the state of media plurality and press freedom, in which regularly also the developments on the media market are examined and recommendations for action are derived from it, which secure the media and opinion plurality.
In order to compensate for competitive disadvantages, DIE LINKE advocates the promotion of the press, which strengthens journalistic media plurality with good working conditions at local, regional, national and European level and supports not only print media but also appropriate research formats of online journalism as well as non-commercial offers.
DIE LINKE wants to improve youth protection on the Internet.
For us, effective protection of minors consists in particular in comprehensive media pedagogical offers for parents, teachers, children and adolescents.
Media education is on the agenda in all educational institutions across generations.
Media literacy also plays a central role in old age.
We want to strengthen the role of the state media.
Simplified access to European funding from the economic recovery and investment programmes, in addition to existing media support, should address both the consequences of the pandemic and the needs of a democratic media landscape, as well as increasing support for non-profit media freedom initiatives.
