An immigration society based on solidarity
Immigration is not a threat, it is a daily occurrence for many, part of our society and the right of every individual.
Germany is home to people from different places, with different histories and more diverse than ever before.
We live, love and work together.
We do not join in when employees and pensioners in Germany are played off against people fleeing poverty, oppression, the consequences of the climate catastrophe and war.
If wealth were distributed more fairly, there would be enough for good living, housing and work for all.
The economy is often based on the exploitation and poor working conditions of migrants with often precarious residence status and sometimes limited health care, for example in abattoirs, asparagus fields and in care.
People with a history of migration are even more likely to be affected by poverty, exclusion and unemployment after generations.
Their children are systematically disadvantaged in the education system, and those with a migrant-sounding surname are more likely to have problems finding housing and jobs.
These legal and social discrimination must be eliminated.
Instead, the federal government continues to focus on deterrence, division, and foreclosure.
The result: growing racism in society and state institutions such as the police, where extreme right-wing networks (keyword NSU 2.0!) are wreaking havoc.
And right-wing terror again and again.
Our Agenda Against Racism: Social Offensive and Equal Rights for All
Overcoming racism and discrimination requires a fair distribution of rights, wealth and resources.
We want participation rather than integration.
Democracy presupposes participation in everyday life.
We want all people who live here to be given equal legal, political and social rights within the framework of a participation agenda.
Along with numerous movements and anti-racist initiatives such as Pier, Stand Up Against Racism and Black Lives Matter, we stand # indivisible against social division, racism and right-wing hate speech.
For us, anti-racism is much more than symbolic politics.
Investment is needed in cohesion and participation rather than in exclusion and isolation.
And equal rights for all.
Our goal is a fundamental policy shift toward global freedom of movement, equal rights for all, and a supportive immigration society.
We oppose everyday racism and structural racism in the state and society.
DIE LINKE stands for open borders for all people in a Europe of solidarity that does not close itself off.
We are fighting for safe escape routes and a society that realizes human rights rather than building walls and adapting fundamental rights to the current budget and mood.
There needs to be residency and work permits regardless of length of employment and employer, as well as nationwide controls to enforce the minimum wage of 13 euros for all people (see <unk>'s work section).
A potential shortage of skilled workers does not require a targeted recruitment of qualified people abroad, but decent training, working conditions and pay for all people in this country.
Better recognition of the qualifications and qualifications of non-EU citizens is needed to enable them to continue in their professions.
We oppose the federal government's restriction of social security for migrants from EU countries and other states.
Health coverage must not be restricted: We need a federal hardship fund and an anonymous health insurance certificate to treat people without coverage, and we want to repeal exemptions from the insurance requirement (see chapter on health).
There should be a legal entitlement to interpreter services within the framework of medical services.
Inclusion, participation and accessibility must no longer be a question of residence permits.
We want active and passive voting rights at all levels for all long-term residents of Germany with a history of migration, so that they can participate in shaping society on an equal footing.
All children and young people born here whose parents reside permanently in the country should be granted German citizenship and have the right to multi-nationality without having to give up their parents "citizenship.
Migrants should have a legal right to naturalisation after five years in the Federal Republic of Germany.
We are calling for the possibility of legalisation for people without residence status and for effective residence rights for people who have to live in an unsafe residence status or with chain tolerance.
We want to provide them with secure access to education, health and protection from exploitation under labour law.
We oppose deportations, especially in war, persecution and misery, or as a form of double punishment, unlike all other parties represented in the Bundestag.
We have always voted against this and will continue to do so in the future.
Anti-racism into law: As in Thuringia, a clear working definition of institutional and structural racism is needed.
In addition, we call for a fundamental reform of the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG) and a right to sue associations.
There needs to be protection against discrimination, which also includes state action.
We call for a Federal Anti-Discrimination Act (BADG) to protect against discrimination by public authorities.
It needs an anti-racism officer with real powers.
There needs to be institutionalised support and counselling structures for people with experiences of racism that are low-level and appropriate.
These structures are to be regulated throughout the country.
DIE LINKE calls for a protection and promotion clause against racial discrimination to be included in Article 3 of the Basic Law.
Racism and corruption in the authorities must be tackled at long last, and this requires organisational development in the administration that is sensitive to discrimination and police reform (see <unk>'s Safety for All chapter).
We want a participation law to better involve people with experience of racism and to represent them more in society.
These include a quota to increase the proportion of people with a history of migration in public administration according to their share of the population, and a participation council to be involved in important decisions in business, science and politics.
Here, it is central to us that migrant self-organisations are part of the Participation Council and that it is a representation corresponding to an equal opportunities officer.
We demand that an inquiry commission be set up to advise the Bundestag on the implementation of the demands of the NSU Committee and the UN Anti-Racism Committee (ICERD).
We demand a humanitarian right of residence for those affected by right-wing violence without permanent residence status.
Victims of racism and their families need better support.
There needs to be an increase in compensation for victims of racially and anti-Semitically motivated attacks.
People with experience of racism are not a security problem.
Responsibility for migration and integration must be withdrawn from the Federal Ministry of the Interior.
We are calling for a federal ministry for migration and participation.
Civil society groups working against racism, anti-Semitism, homophobia and trans-hostility, anti-Zionism, religious fundamentalism, anti-Muslim racism and for more democracy, as well as refugee councils, migrant associations, self-administered counselling services and the self-organisation of migrants, we want to promote more strongly and permanently through a democracy promotion law (see chapter "Against right-wing violence").
Anti-racist initiatives should receive more financial support.
Coaches, supervisors and volunteers in clubs and (fan) projects that carry out participation work must be given greater support.
There needs to be significantly more investment in public infrastructure and social cohesion, which means better equipment, better working conditions and more staff in schools, day care centres, administration, youth and cultural centres (see <unk> Investments).
We want to expand and support low-threshold offers, especially for migrants and refugee women as well as queer refugees and migrants.
We want a fund for voluntary municipalities that ensures freedom of movement for refugees and helps receptive communities and solidarity cities.
Municipalities that want to improve the conditions for a welcoming culture can apply for funds for the care and integration of refugees.
This investment can then be used in general for public services.
We will launch an immediate programme to train and recruit additional school social workers and teachers to teach German as a second language.
The right to school education must apply to all children nationwide, regardless of residence status, including the legal right to childcare and full-day places.
Qualifications for vocational training must be offered regardless of age.
We want to provide education and integration services irrespective of residence status.
We want to accommodate refugees decentrally and in apartments throughout Germany and offer them free language courses throughout the country.
Instead of discriminatory benefits in kind, we want regular cash benefits equal to the minimum level of solidarity for all people.
Defending humanity: Saving people, clearing escape routes, fighting the causes of flight
German corporations export weapons all over the world, but people who are fleeing from these weapons and the wars they are waging should be locked out.
Many are fleeing because Western corporations are destroying their countries.
But their entry into Europe is made more difficult by inhumane means.
More than 20 000 people have died on their way to Europe in the last seven years, drowned in the Mediterranean, died of thirst in the desert.
There is intolerable misery in the camps at the borders, on EU soil.
Germany is politically dependent on regimes that do the job of repelling refugees at Europe's external borders; at home, the far right is mobilizing.
It would be different.
Because there is enough space and resources.
If wealth were distributed more fairly, there would be enough for everyone.
Human life and dignity must not depend on passports or residence permits.
That is why we stand up against foreclosure and deportation, for the right to go, to come and to stay.
And for overcoming economic injustices and the ideologies of inequality such as racism and nationalism, which are becoming popular weapons in the competition for resources, wealth and life chances.
Instead of being pitted against each other, we want to stand together for justice: save people, globalize social justice, and not actually fight the causes of refugees.
Stop the excuses: save the people! The EU foreclosure agency Frontex must be disbanded and replaced by a civilian European maritime rescue programme.
We want to put existing instruments for monitoring the Mediterranean and external borders at the service of maritime rescue.
The criminalisation of civil society sea rescue must be stopped immediately.
All European hotspots, such as the Moria slum and its successors, must be dismantled.
There needs to be an immediate humanitarian programme to receive people.
As long as a European solution is not feasible, the Federal Government must lead the way with a coalition of the willing.
We want legal and safe entry into the EU.
This deprives smugglers of business.
The Geneva Convention on Refugees, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Human Rights must be respected.
In January 2021, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees denounced the practice of refoulement at Europe's borders and said the right to asylum was at risk.
The principle of non-refoulement at the EU's external borders and on the high seas must be fully respected; the refugee deal with Turkey and similar agreements or forms of cooperation with militias and dictators in countries such as Libya, Egypt, Sudan and Morocco must be terminated.
Escape is not a crime; individual access to asylum procedures and legal protection must be ensured for asylum seekers at the EU's external borders.
Women, the sick, the elderly, children, religious and ethnic minorities, people with disabilities and queer people are particularly vulnerable.
They must be safe from violence, misery and exploitation.
We reject fast-track procedures and detention of asylum seekers (whether in so-called return, transit, controlled centres or "hotspots").
We want uniform standards of protection at a high level; we want to put an end to the transfer of responsibility to other states by means of safe third-country or country-of-origin regulations.
Persecution on the grounds of sexual orientation and of trans * and intersex people (LGBTIQA *) must be recognised in practice as a reason to flee.
Negative competition through lowered standards of accommodation, care and rights must be abolished! The Federal Government must finally press for the EU to take action against Member States that systematically disregard their human rights obligations.
We call for comprehensive independent asylum process advice from charities and associations, which must be publicly funded; blanket asylum revocation checks should not be carried out; the quality of asylum screening and internal control must be significantly improved to effectively reduce the number of illegal and flawed BAMF decisions; there are no economic refugees; no one flees voluntarily; we call for mandatory refugee rights to be extended to poverty, environmental and climate refugees; and appropriate humanitarian visas.
Comprehensive reception quotas are needed through the UNHCR resettlement programme and the lifting of visa requirements for those seeking protection.
The Dublin system must be overcome: we want a European sharing of responsibility levy, based on the wishes and interests of refugees, taking into account existing family ties, linguistic knowledge and individual circumstances.
Unequal distribution can then be compensated by compensating countries with low numbers of refugees; countries, regions and cities that are willing to take in more refugees receive financial support from EU funds.
The right to family reunification must apply unconditionally, including to those who are entitled to protection.
In the case of unaccompanied minor refugees, there must be a right to join their siblings.
We demand that the municipalities themselves be allowed to decide whether to take in more refugees than the people allocated to them.
Local authorities should also be able to order hardship permits in future.
No human being is illegal! The right to freedom of movement must not depend on the coincidence of the place of birth or economic exploitation.
DIE LINKE is committed to comprehensive visa liberalisation as well as an open and solidarity-based immigration law that is no longer based on origin or economic exploitability.
If you really want to combat the causes of flight, you must finally change the conditions that repeatedly force people to flee and make help necessary.
Instead of continuing to systematically export causes of flight such as weapons, environmental and climate destruction, and poverty, we want to overcome global injustices, support democracy and social movements from below, and effectively help people in need (see chapter "Social Justice Worldwide").
