3.12.Understanding each other better
The new world is digital and media.
That is why digital and media participation, diversity, equal opportunities and communicative pluralism are of fundamental importance.
We understand media policy at all levels of government as social policy.
It serves to strengthen the open democratic dialogue in our society.
We are committed to strong public service broadcasting throughout the state and support the countries in further developing the mission in a digital media world.
Right now, there is a need for public service offerings that ensure comprehensive and in-depth journalistic reporting.
We will strengthen the framework conditions for private-sector media creation and support them in particular where federal questions of competition, copyright or telecommunications law shape the framework conditions of private media markets.
We will help publishers to successfully manage the transformation into digital.
We will strengthen the rights of journalists to access and report.
We will enshrine journalism in public benefit law, so that foundation funding is also possible without undermining market-based structures.
We note with concern that journalists and media companies in many parts of the world are increasingly being attacked, threatened and their freedom impaired by state institutions and officials.
In bilateral talks and intergovernmental associations, we will therefore strengthen initiatives to protect press freedom and the work of journalists and media companies.
Enabling all citizens in Germany to participate in the media is a joint responsibility of all media and public authorities.
We want to expand barrier-free services and, together with media providers, take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitisation and technical possibilities here as well.
The Corona crisis has shown very clearly that there is a great need for digitally available media, educational and cultural content.
We are therefore committed to strengthening networking and cooperation between stakeholders, particularly in the fields of media, culture and education.
Media literacy is above all a democratic competence.
Learning, working, identity building, personality development and communication with others are increasingly tied to social media in our everyday lives.
To this end, we want to combine the creative energy of the net community with the quality and experience of classical media.
We want to create areas of development in which the digital transformation of the media world succeeds and link these with educational opportunities.
