3.11.Promoting culture
Culture is vital as a source of inspiration and a catalyst for debate.
Many of the issues that concern us at the moment are essentially cultural policy issues.
We are witnessing not only the threat to social cohesion, but also the erosion of the common sense and the common basis of values.
A disturbing development for a democracy.
In view of the existential importance of art and culture, we as a society must agree on what cultural policy must achieve in the 21st century.
To this end, we want to develop the top cultural policy discussions into a nationwide cultural plenum, in which not only municipalities, states and the federal government, but also cultural producers, their associations and civil society are represented, in order to develop a new cultural consensus on the tasks and procedures of cultural policy, a cultural alliance of diversity and freedom.
We want to anchor culture as a state objective in the Basic Law.
In order to promote culture, existing infrastructures must be maintained and the production possibilities of artistic and cultural content must also be safeguarded in the free scene.
To this end, we will take greater account of the living and working conditions of artists.
In order to provide better social security for freelance artists, we will firmly establish minimum fees and exhibition fees.
We want to provide the means for the creation of art and for cultural institutions to be open to everyone, from the theatre to the music club, from the museum to the socio-cultural centre, from the library to the music school.
A decisive task will be to enable the municipalities to promote art and culture on a long-term basis, including financially.
We will expand the Federal Cultural Funds and set up programmes with which cultural spaces can be secured and developed.
We will shape the framework conditions in the markets for cultural and creative industries in such a way that appropriate business and revenue models are strengthened.
We improve film funding by the German Film Promotion Agency (FFA), secure the income base of filmmakers with the amendment to the Film Promotion Act, support the international broadcasting of German films, preserve the film heritage and make decision-making bodies more efficient.
We want to promote the production of audiovisual content in Germany in order to preserve sustainable jobs and create new ones.
A sustainable funding basis for cinema funding is necessary to successfully lead cinemas into the future and to ensure their regional presence as cultural venues.
We will develop future concepts for film funding with the film community.
Games are a cultural asset, an engine of innovation and an economic factor.
However, the potential of games in digital education as well as eSports in clubs and schools is still insufficiently exploited.
We therefore want to anchor the promotion of computer games permanently.
We will continue to support the development of eSports in Germany, for example by making it non-profit.
We will provide all citizens with access to art and culture, regardless of origin, education, social situation and financial means.
We will ensure that cultural institutions can continue to open up.
We will strengthen diversity in cultural institutions.
We will also expand diversity and gender equality in leadership positions, committees and juries.
Participation in art and culture is a key to self-confidence, personality development, education and integration.
We will also secure them through programs such as Culture Makes Strong and Sustainable as part of school and extracurricular education.
We will promote the digitisation of media libraries and safeguard and make more accessible our cultural heritage.
We will strengthen the development of the digital as an artistic space and promote digital art projects.
Last but not least, we will actively support the development of digital cultural events and revenue models.
Cultural exchange should emphasize social and artistic cooperation in Europe as well as European values such as openness, equality, freedom and humanism.
Cultural networks, cultural platforms and cultural actors are partners of state action.
The joint appearance of the Goethe Institute and the Institut Francais, for example, shows how we can deal with our values and the issues that challenge us together, such as colonialism.
Nationalism, racism, anti-Semitism and anti-ziganism present us with new challenges, especially in dealing with the Nazi crimes and the Shoa.
We will better support the scientific and didactic preparation of eyewitness reports and source material from the Nazi era.
We will give greater support to small initiatives and places of remembrance and promote the development of new forms of commemorative culture in the light of the passing away of contemporary witnesses. We will strengthen the Federal Foundation for Reappraisal so that the engagement with the SED dictatorship receives more support throughout the country.
We support the Future Center for European Transformation and German Unity.
In view of the colonial crimes committed by Germans, we will also promote the development of a postcolonial culture of remembrance in federal politics.
It includes a change in the way museums deal with collections that are burdened by colonialism.
We want to promote outstanding places in the history of democracy in Germany at the federal level.
