3.9.Living Together
The basic prerequisite for living together in a society of respect is the certainty that one belongs to it, that one is accepted and belongs independently of a family migration biography.
Migration is no stranger to Germany.
Our country has always welcomed people from other regions, just as Germans have found a new home in other countries around the world.
This makes us richer as a society and moves us forward.
Our aim is to ensure that this self-evident and sense of togetherness becomes visible and tangible in all areas of society.
It is about ensuring that all citizens have the same opportunities and opportunities, free from discrimination.
To this end, we will strengthen the work of the Federal Anti-Discrimination Agency and modernise the General Equal Treatment Act.
At the same time, we will vigorously fight racism, right-wing extremism, anti-Semitism, anti-ziganism, Islamophobia, anti-feminism, sexism and LGBTIQ * hostility.
A better exchange and a coordinated approach, for example through the creation of a federal-state commission, is an important step.
Crimes in this area must also be recorded and punished more consistently.
Integration is a permanent social and governmental task.
We would like to guarantee the right to integration and participation offers to all people who are new to us.
We are strengthening integration and language courses for all immigrants in Germany, to which they should have access from day one, regardless of their nationality and residence status.
All children must be given the opportunity to attend daycare immediately; compulsory schooling also applies directly to all children.
We want to allow well-integrated people without secure residency to have a permanent right to stay.
Families belong together.
Integration also works best with the family.
We therefore want to align the rules for family reunification with those for refugees who are entitled to subsidiary protection.
In doing so, we will also create arrangements for sibling reunification with unaccompanied minor refugees.
Everyone who lives with us should have the right to make a living.
We will therefore abolish work bans.
The situation of years of chain tolerance is also an obstacle to integration and must be brought to an end by a deadline in order to give people a perspective.
We reject the compulsory repatriation of people to countries where they are at risk of life and limb.
However, our capacity for integration must go far beyond the financing of language and integration courses.
And it's not just about newcomers.
Even the children and grandchildren of the so-called "guest workers" and contract workers of the 1960s still experience discrimination in everyday life.
The civil service must set an example in terms of integration.
In the interests of equal opportunities, care must be taken to ensure that marginalised groups of people also have access to jobs in the public sector and that all employees are equally able to train and advance.
Therefore, in addition to target-group-specific formulations of job advertisements, recognition of diversity competences, recognition of qualifications acquired abroad and fairness of remuneration, we also need a law on participation and integration that commits state institutions to a process of intercultural openness.
Our society of respect needs a modern citizenship law.
Since we have already ensured that basically all children born in Germany are also German citizens at birth, we will also enshrine in law the general possibility of multi-nationality.
We want to abolish existing obstacles to naturalisation and also shorten the current standard residence period of eight years.
The fight against racism in German society requires a critical examination of our colonial past.
We must deal responsibly with our historical guilt.
We welcome the commitment in the religious communities and churches.
We will continue to promote and strengthen interreligious dialogue and dialogue between religions, beliefs and cultures.
We welcome the commitment of secular civil society initiatives.
Religious freedom is firmly anchored in the Basic Law and we protect it.
